README.md, before:

# Laptop

[![ci](https://github.com/1000bulbs/laptop/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/1000Bulbs/laptop/actions/workflows/test.yml)

Laptop is a script to set up a macOS laptop for web development.

It can be run multiple times safely on the same machine. It installs and
upgrades packages based on what is already installed.

## Requirements

- macOS Sonoma (14.x) on Apple Silicon and Intel

## Install

Download the script:

```sh
curl --remote-name https://raw.githubusercontent.com/1000bulbs/laptop/master/mac
```

Run the script:

```sh
sh mac 2>&1 | tee ~/laptop.log
```

Optionally, review the log:

```sh
less ~/laptop.log
```

## Debugging

Your last laptop run will be saved to `~/laptop.log`. Read through it and see if
you can find the issue. If not, open a [new GitHub
Issue](https://github.com/1000bulbs/laptop/issues/new) and attach the log file
as an attachment.

## What This Script Sets Up

macOS tools:

- [Homebrew] for managing operating system libraries.

[Homebrew]: http://brew.sh/

Unix tools:

- [Git] for version control
- [OpenSSL] for Transport Layer Security (TLS)
- [RCM] for managing company and personal dotfiles
- [The Silver Searcher] for finding things in files
- [Tmux] for saving project state and switching between projects
- [Zsh] as your shell

[Git]: https://git-scm.com/
[OpenSSL]: https://www.openssl.org/
[RCM]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/rcm
[The Silver Searcher]: https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher
[Tmux]: https://tmux.github.io/
[Zsh]: https://www.zsh.org/

GitHub tools:

- [GitHub CLI] for interacting with the GitHub API

[GitHub CLI]: https://cli.github.com/

Image tools:

- [ImageMagick] for cropping and resizing images

Programming languages, package managers, and configuration:

- [asdf-vm] for managing programming language versions
- [Bundler] for managing Ruby libraries
- [Node.js] and [npm], for running apps and installing JavaScript packages
- [Ruby] stable for writing general-purpose code
- [Yarn] for managing JavaScript packages
- [Rosetta 2] for running tools that are not supported in Apple silicon processors

[Bundler]: https://bundler.io/
[ImageMagick]: https://www.imagemagick.org/
[Node.js]: http://nodejs.org/
[npm]: https://www.npmjs.org/
[asdf-vm]: https://github.com/asdf-vm/asdf
[Ruby]: https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/
[Yarn]: https://yarnpkg.com/en/
[Rosetta 2]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/apple-silicon/about-the-rosetta-translation-environment

Databases:

- [Postgres] for postgres libraries
- [MySQL] for mysql libraries

[Postgres]: https://www.postgresql.org/
[MySQL]: https://www.mysql.com

## Customizations

You can add your own customizations by adding them to your `~/.laptop.local`
file, which is run at the end of the laptop script.

Put your customizations there.
For example:

```sh
#!/bin/sh

brew bundle --file=- <<EOF
brew "go"
EOF

fancy_echo "Cleaning up old Homebrew packages ..."
brew cleanup
```

Make sure your customizations can be run safely more than once.
See the `mac` script for examples.

## Testing

Follow shell style guidelines by using [ShellCheck].

```sh
brew install shellcheck
```

[ShellCheck]: https://www.shellcheck.net/about.html

Test laptop script

```sh
shellcheck mac
```

Test customizations script

```sh
shellcheck ~/.laptop.local
```

Commit message:

included instructions on setting up a Docker Personal Access Token (PAT)

README.md, after:

# Laptop

[![ci](https://github.com/1000bulbs/laptop/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/1000Bulbs/laptop/actions/workflows/test.yml)

Laptop is a script to set up a macOS laptop for web development.

It can be run multiple times safely on the same machine. It installs and
upgrades packages based on what is already installed.

## Requirements

- macOS Sonoma (14.x) on Apple Silicon and Intel

## Install

Download the script:

```sh
curl --remote-name https://raw.githubusercontent.com/1000bulbs/laptop/master/mac
```

Run the script:

```sh
sh mac 2>&1 | tee ~/laptop.log
```

Optionally, review the log:

```sh
less ~/laptop.log
```

## Debugging

Your last laptop run will be saved to `~/laptop.log`. Read through it and see if
you can find the issue. If not, open a [new GitHub
Issue](https://github.com/1000bulbs/laptop/issues/new) and attach the log file
as an attachment.

## Docker Login

1000bulbs repos make extensive use of CLI tools and scripts. Many of these require access to the Docker Hub and the images we've prepared for development. To fully setup your personal workstation to work seamlessly with Docker, see the additional instructions for logging into [Docker](./Docker/Docker.md).

## What This Script Sets Up

macOS tools:

- [Homebrew] for managing operating system libraries.

[Homebrew]: http://brew.sh/

Unix tools:

- [Git] for version control
- [OpenSSL] for Transport Layer Security (TLS)
- [RCM] for managing company and personal dotfiles
- [The Silver Searcher] for finding things in files
- [Tmux] for saving project state and switching between projects
- [Zsh] as your shell

[Git]: https://git-scm.com/
[OpenSSL]: https://www.openssl.org/
[RCM]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/rcm
[The Silver Searcher]: https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher
[Tmux]: https://tmux.github.io/
[Zsh]: https://www.zsh.org/

GitHub tools:

- [GitHub CLI] for interacting with the GitHub API

[GitHub CLI]: https://cli.github.com/

Image tools:

- [ImageMagick] for cropping and resizing images

Programming languages, package managers, and configuration:

- [asdf-vm] for managing programming language versions
- [Bundler] for managing Ruby libraries
- [Node.js] and [npm], for running apps and installing JavaScript packages
- [Ruby] stable for writing general-purpose code
- [Yarn] for managing JavaScript packages
- [Rosetta 2] for running tools that are not supported in Apple silicon processors

[Bundler]: https://bundler.io/
[ImageMagick]: https://www.imagemagick.org/
[Node.js]: http://nodejs.org/
[npm]: https://www.npmjs.org/
[asdf-vm]: https://github.com/asdf-vm/asdf
[Ruby]: https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/
[Yarn]: https://yarnpkg.com/en/
[Rosetta 2]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/apple-silicon/about-the-rosetta-translation-environment

Databases:

- [Postgres] for postgres libraries
- [MySQL] for mysql libraries

[Postgres]: https://www.postgresql.org/
[MySQL]: https://www.mysql.com

## Customizations

You can add your own customizations by adding them to your `~/.laptop.local`
file, which is run at the end of the laptop script.

Put your customizations there.
For example:

```sh
#!/bin/sh

brew bundle --file=- <<EOF
brew "go"
EOF

fancy_echo "Cleaning up old Homebrew packages ..."
brew cleanup
```

Make sure your customizations can be run safely more than once.
See the `mac` script for examples.

## Testing

Follow shell style guidelines by using [ShellCheck].

```sh
brew install shellcheck
```

[ShellCheck]: https://www.shellcheck.net/about.html

Test laptop script

```sh
shellcheck mac
```

Test customizations script

```sh
shellcheck ~/.laptop.local
```
